the trauma of attack can initiate
another hypnotic state these pigeons are
in a state of trance a bizarre condition
that affects many different animals
alligators are easily mesmerised - a
fact exploited by Florida showman avoid
the TV and it's easy to provoke this
weird catatonic state the alligator
reacts as if it had been grabbed by
another predator a chicken can be
hypnotized too by turning it over and
focusing its attention
these strange states probably originated
as a defense predators react to movement
if their quarry plays dead the killer
instinct is suppressed it's this inborn
defense that's triggered when people
hypnotize animals in trance breathing
and heart rates drop they can stay like
this for hours when they come to it's as
though a hypnotist has clicked his
fingers they even wake together and they
don't remember a thing
you